---
layout: post
title: "Homebrew"
tagline: "The Mac osx package manager"
category: Mac tools 
tags: [homebrew, mac-tools, alternative, macports, brew]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Installing additional command line tools on your machine should be just as easy as with the App Store.  

`Macports` used to be my first choice package manager to install 3th party libraries on my machine. But too often I stumbled into one conflicting error after the other.  

Fixing those conflict errors became tedious and time-consuming, while all I wanted was to install a simple command line tool.

Other times when an error occurred during the installation of a library. I couldn't tell at a glance which libraries were left behind on my machine because of a broken installation.

Macports may have its advantages, but being simple and transparent wasn't one of them.

Nowadays when I install a tool on my machine, it is not only fast and easy, but also transparent and error free. Meet Homebrew!

## What is Homebrew?
Homebrew is a package manager for the Mac osx that simplifies the installation of software on your Mac OS X.

With Homebrew you can install the newest versions of command line tools like git, servers like Glassfish, databases like MySQL and even Mac (GUI) Applications like `Firefox`, `Eclipse`, `Alfred` and `Sublime Text 2`.  


    
## Install Homebrew:  
Homebrew requires OS X 10.5+ and the `Xcode` command line tools, you need to install it first.  
After installing `Xcode`, execute the next line in the command line:

```ruby
ruby -e  "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/go/install)"
```
  
## Formula
Homebrew uses the term `formula` to refer to the installation files of the packages.  
A formula is a file written in Ruby that instructs Homebrew how to install a package.

## Installation directory
Homebrew installs the packages in directory `/usr/local/Cellar`.  
After installing a package inside a single directory, it creates a symlink to this directory.

## Taps 
A Tap is a git repository where Homebrew searches for available formulae (packages).  
By default Homebrew is configured with a single `tap` but can search in multiple taps.

## Basic commands

```
brew doctor - Checks  your  system  for potential problems.  
brew update - Updates installed packages with newest version.  
brew ls - Lists installed packages on current machine.  
brew search partial-name - Searches for availables packages on the repository  
brew install package-name - Installs a package from the repository.  
brew info package-name - Gets information on the packages
```
_Command example_ : `brew install tree`

## Tap Commands
Homebrew is by default configured with tap `caskroom/cask`, but can be changed. Look at the list of interesting tap repos [here](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/wiki/Interesting-Taps-&-Branches).  

```
brew tap - List current tap repositories.  
brew tap tap-name - Adds tap to the list of tap repositories.  
brew untap tap-name - Removes tap from the list of tap repositories. 
```
_Command example_ : `brew tap homebrew/dupes`  

## GUI Applications
`Cask` is an extension for Homebrew to install  GUI applications on your machine.  
To use Cask you need to install it using Homebrew:  

```
brew install cask
```

## Cask commands

```
brew cask doctor - Checks  your  system  for potential problems.  
brew cask update - Updates installed packages with newest version.  
brew cask ls - Lists installed packages on current machine.  
brew cask search partial-name - Searches for availables packages on the repository  
brew cask install package-name - Installs a package from the repository.  
brew cask info package-name - Gets information on the packages
```
_Command example_ : `brew cask install google-chrome`

## Article links
Interesting tap repositories - [&raquo;here &laquo;](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/wiki/Interesting-Taps-&-Branches).  
Homebrew website - [&raquo;here &laquo;](http://brew.sh).  
Homebrew Cask website - [&raquo;here &laquo;](http://caskroom.io)

***




